hi guys has been Heath from lead guru
and in this video I'm gonna talk about
the ideal facebook video ad length now
this is a question that I get asked all
the time how long should my video ads be
well we've run a bunch of experiments
we've got a pretty good idea of what
works best and that's what I'm going to
cover today so the first thing I'll say
about video ads on Facebook is they
should be as long as they need to be but
absolutely no longer than that you have
to remember that attention spans online
in facebook in particular are very short
the Facebook newsfeed is a very
interesting place with lots of
distractions so we don't want to make it
any longer than it needs to be but the
reason why I say it needs to be as long
as it needs to be is you shouldn't cut
yourself short in order to produce a
short video let's say you're creating
educational content and you're
advertising that on Facebook or you want
to make sure that you explain the
concepts in that educational content
fully don't jeopardize the value of your
content by trying to produce a really
short video make sure it's as long as it
needs to be and fully explain what it is
that you're talking about because at the
end of the day if you're looking to
educate your target market that's the
objective of your video content if you
don't take enough time to actually
explain it properly there's no point in
running the ad in the first place so
from what I've seen the best length of
educational video content on Facebook is
around about 2 to 4 minutes long of
course you could go over that and if
you're explaining something particularly
complex or there's many points that you
want to discuss but I wouldn't recommend
it remember attention spans on Facebook
are very short the Facebook newsfeed is
a very interesting and engaging place
and if the videos too long people will
see are that's 9 minutes long that's 15
minutes long and they won't bother
watching to the end
I wouldn't go much shorter than 2
minutes either because remember you're
going to have your intro which may take
10 15 seconds and then you're probably
going to have some sort of call to
action at the end where that's buy your
products inquire about your services or
whatever it is that might take around
about 30 seconds so when you start
getting beneath that two-minute mark you
haven't got enough time to deliver real
valuable content in the middle so
something around about 3 minutes 2 to 4
minutes is perfect
gives you enough time for an intro and a
call to action and to deliver some
really great actionable content in the
middle without it being too long so that
people get bored and stop
now one obvious caveat to this is
product demonstration videos so in that
case the video really just needs to be
as long as it takes for you to
demonstrate your product you know if
you've got something very complex it
needs to be constructed but it's a you
know a very high-end purchase then
you're going to need a longer video most
product demonstration videos though are
going to be really short and that's
great if it can be short and still get
the message across then go for that and
of course if you're looking to promote
entertaining video ads on Facebook then
the length really depends on how
entertaining your video actually is you
could probably get away with a 10 12
minute video if it's very entertaining
really engaging really holds people this
attention most entertaining videos
aren't going to be quite sure and in
that case feel free to go under that
sort of 2-minute guideline minimum that
I recommended for educational videos so
that's what I'd recommend for the ideal
Facebook video ad length and if you are
looking to get better results from
Facebook than what you're currently
getting we can almost certainly help you
with that lead guru is a digital
marketing agency that specializes in
Facebook advertising and we've run many
many profitable campaigns in many
different industries
we've run campaign is designed to
generate leads to build email lists to
make direct sales to grow companies
brand so whatever it is that you're
looking to achieve on Facebook we can
almost certainly help you get there
faster so if you are interested in
working with us and interested in our
services then you can let us know by
leaving a comment below or you can click
on the link in the video description
that'll take you through to the contact
page on our website you'll obviously be
able to get in touch there so hopefully
I'll speak to you soon but either way
best of luck with your facebook video
ads and bye for now